create gvisor docs (#1304)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/event-sources/gvisor/_index.md

description: 'gVisor support in Falco'
linktitle: gVisor
weight: 80
---

Falco can work with **[gVisor](https://gvisor.dev/)**.

gVisor, quoting the [official documentation](https://gvisor.dev/docs), is an application kernel that provides an **additional layer of isolation** between running applications and the host operating system. It delivers an additional security boundary for containers by **intercepting and monitoring workload runtime instructions in user space** before they can reach the underlying host.

## How Falco and gVisor work together

When running containers with gVisor, there are several components that interact with our workload:

![](images/gvisor-01.png)

The Sentry is the gVisor component that implements all the application kernel functionalities. Whenever a syscall gets executed inside the sandboxed application, the Sentry will manage it as usual, plus it will send a message to Falco through a UDS (Unix Domain Socket). 

Messages are serialized through Protocol Buffers so that gVisor and Falco can communicate even if they are written in different programming languages.

![](images/gvisor-02.png)

## Setup gVisor Docker sandbox monitoring with Falco

> First, [install **Falco**](https://falco.org/docs/getting-started/installation/) 0.371 or above and [install the **gVisor runsc tool**](https://gvisor.dev/docs/user_guide/install/) 20221122.0 or above:
> 
> - Check the Falco version is `>= 0.33.1`:
>   ```bash
>   falco --version
>   ```
> - Check the `runsc` version is `release-20221122.0`:
>   ```bash
>   runsc --version
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, [install **Falco**](https://falco.org/docs/getting-started/installation/) and [install the **gVisor runsc tool**](https://gvisor.dev/docs/user_guide/install/). Any version of runsc released in 2023 or later is compatible with Falco.
```

Let's simplify this. Back then we had to specify exact versions because we were using cutting edge builds, now these changes are more stable.

gVisor needs to be configured to send events to Falco. Generate the appropriate configuration file:

```bash
falco --gvisor-generate-config > /tmp/runsc_falco_config.json
sudo mv /tmp/runsc_falco_config.json /etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json

# Don't forget to protect this configuration
sudo chmod 640 /etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json
```

The easiest way to run a gVisor sandbox is by using Docker. 
You need to first [configure Docker to work with gVisor via `runsc install`](https://gvisor.dev/docs/user_guide/quick_start/docker/), and then we're going to update the `runsc` pod init config configuration for our Docker containers:

```bash
sudo -e /etc/docker/daemon.json
```

Then, add the `runtimeArgs` key with the `--pod-init-config=` parameter like in the example below:

```json
{
    "runtimes": {
        "runsc": {
            "path": "/usr/local/bin/runsc",
            "runtimeArgs": [
                "--pod-init-config=/etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

{{% pageinfo color=warning %}}
Do not forget the comma at the end of the line which sets the `path`.

> {{% /pageinfo %}}

Reviewer: it's json, I don't think we really need this warning.

Then, restart the Docker daemon to let it use the new configuration:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart docker
```

## Run Falco by command line

Simply run Falco by the command line:

```bash
sudo falco -o "engine.kind=gvisor" -o "engine.gvisor.config=/etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json"
```

> or edit the file `/etc/falco/falco.yaml` to have these settings and run Falco wiht `sudo falco`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or edit the file `/etc/falco/falco.yaml` to have these settings and run Falco with `sudo falco`:
```

The key observation here is that there is one Sentry process for each gVisor sandbox. If we want them to be able to communicate with Falco, we must set up a form of inter-process communication.

We decided to use a UDS (Unix Domain Socket) to handle the communication between each Sentry and Falco. Falco is acting as a server, and it is responsible for setting up the socket and listening to connections. On the other hand, each Sentry process acts as a client, and it is configured to connect to the endpoint where Falco is listening.

Whenever a syscall gets executed inside the sandboxed application, the Sentry will manage it as usual, plus it will send a message to Falco through the UDS. Messages are serialized through Protocol Buffers so that gVisor and Falco can communicate even if they are written in different programming languages.

> Once a message related to a syscall is received, Falco unpacks it and creates the corresponding event in a way that is consumable by our libraries. This way, it is possible to update necessary state information and trigger Falco rules whenever a match occurs!

Reviewer: Could you summarize this part? While I agree that it is important to indicate that we connect to every configured gvisor sandboxes via a (configurable) unix domain socket I don't think the documentation page needs to explain the process that brought it to life in detail

![](images/gvisor-02.png)

> ## Setup gVisor Docker sandbox monitoring with Falco

Reviewer: Some of these instructions might be slightly out of date but I can't remember. I know this is a porting of the blog post to make it more maintainable but did you go through the explanation step by step to make sure it works, of course with the latest gVisor and Falco available.

```

The easiest way to run a gVisor sandbox is by using Docker. For this reason, you need to first [configure Docker to work with gVisor via `runsc install`](https://gvisor.dev/docs/user_guide/quick_start/docker/), and then we're going to update the `runsc` pod init config configuration for our Docker containers:

```bash
$ sudo -e /etc/docker/daemon.json
```

Then, add the `runtimeArgs` key with the `--pod-init-config=` parameter like in the example below:

```json
{
    "runtimes": {
        "runsc": {
            "path": "/usr/local/bin/runsc",

--- Do not forget the comma at the end of the previous line. ---
--- Add the following config, not these instructions.        ---

            "runtimeArgs": [
                "--pod-init-config=/etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json"

--- End of added config.                                     ---
--- Have I told you not to include these instructions.       ---

            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Then, restart the Docker daemon to let it use the new configuration:

```bash
$ sudo systemctl restart docker
```

## Runtime detection in action

Now it's time to put everything together and see how to use Falco to monitor gVisor sandboxes.

> To start monitoring gVisor sandboxes, you can use the `-g` or `--gvisor-config` options, passing the path to the pod init config. Falco uses that config file for two main reasons:

Reviewer: I believe these options are deprecated and have been replaced by `-o ...` or the Falco configuration file, see the documentation about the modern eBPF: https://falco.org/docs/install-operate/running/#modern-ebpf

- Extract the path of the UDS that needs to be created
- Create a trace session for all the already existing gVisor sandboxes. New ones will directly connect to the running Falco instance as we configured in the previous step.

### Run Falco stand-alone

Simply run Falco on the command line:

```bash

> $ sudo falco --gvisor-config=/etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json

Reviewer: Same as above

```
> The parameter PrivateTmp, set to false, inside the unit config file is needed since /etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json points to /tmp/gvisor.sock.
>
> Changing the /tmp/gvisor.sock file to /run/gvisor.sock would avoid that we have to use that parameter, and the temporary directory would remain private.

Falco will load the configuration indicating it with a line similar to:
```
Thu Jul 21 15:41:58 2022: Enabled event collection from gVisor. Configuration path: /etc/docker/runsc_falco_config.json
```

Now we can run any container with gVisor:

```bash
$ sudo docker run --runtime=runsc -it ubuntu bash
```

If all goes well, the container will start properly configured to be monitored by Falco! To test the detection capabilities, try to trigger a simple rule like *Write below binary dir*:

```bash
$ touch /bin/foo
```

You will see Falco alerting:
```
07:47:42.173335167: Error File below a known binary directory opened for writing (user=root user_loginuid=0 command=touch touch /bin/foo file=/bin/foo parent=bash pcmdline=bash bash gparent=<NA> container_id=f6d77af4ee3d image=ubuntu) container=f6d77af4ee3d pid=8 tid=8
```

### Falco and gVisor in action

> If you don't happen to have the time to try it right now, here is a short video showing every step to follow.

Reviewer: Could you double check that the instructions in this video are still relevant today? If not we should not include it
